backend/README.md, before:

# Open-Assistant REST Backend

## Backend Development Setup

### Local Database

In root directory, run
`docker compose --profile backend-dev up --build --attach-dependencies` to start
a database. The default settings are already configured to connect to the
database at `localhost:5432`. (See
[FAQ](https://projects.laion.ai/Open-Assistant/docs/faq#enable-dockers-buildkit-backend)
if you face any docker problems).

Python 3.10 is required. It is recommended to use `pyenv` which will recognise
the `.python-version` in the project root directory.

### Python Packages

Next, to install all requirements, You can run

1. `pip install -r requirements.txt` inside the `backend` folder; and
2. `pip install -e .` inside the `oasst-shared` folder.
3. `./scripts/backend-development/run-local.sh` to run the backend. This will
   start the backend server at `http://localhost:8080`.

## REST Server Configuration

Please either use environment variables or create a `.env` file in the backend
root directory (in which this readme file is located) to specify the
`DATABASE_URI`.

Example contents of a `.env` file for the backend:

```
DATABASE_URI="postgresql://<username>:<password>@<host>/<database_name>"
BACKEND_CORS_ORIGINS=["http://localhost", "http://localhost:4200", "http://localhost:3000", "http://localhost:8080", "https://localhost", "https://localhost:4200", "https://localhost:3000", "https://localhost:8080", "http://dev.oasst.laion.ai", "https://stag.oasst.laion.ai", "https://oasst.laion.ai"]
REDIS_HOST=localhost
REDIS_PORT=6379
```

## Running the REST Server locally for development

Have a look into the main `README.md` file for more information on how to set up
the backend for development. Use the scripts within the
scripts/backend-development folder to run the BE API locally.

## Alembic

To create an Alembic database migration script after sql-models were modified
run `alembic revision --autogenerate -m "..."` ("..." is what you did) in the
`/backend` directory. Then edit the newly created file. See
[here](https://alembic.sqlalchemy.org/en/latest/tutorial.html) for more
information.

## API Documentation

Once you have successfully started the backend server, you can access the
default api docs at `localhost:8080/docs`. If you need to update the exported
openapi.json in the docs/ folder you can run below command to `wget` them from
the relevant local fastapi endpoint. This will enable anyone to just see API
docs via something like
[Swagger.io](https://editor.swagger.io/?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/LAION-AI/Open-Assistant/main/docs/docs/api/openapi.json)
without having to actually set up and run a development backend.

```bash
# save openapi.json to docs/docs/api
wget localhost:8080/api/v1/openapi.json -O docs/docs/api/openapi.json
```

Note: The api docs should be automatically updated by the
`test-api-contract.yaml` workflow.

Commit message:

Create oasst_data module (#2009)
To allow convenient imports/processing of OA data by 3rd party projects
the oasst-jsonl data file format schemas are moved into a separate new
python module called oasst_data. Code related to reading oasst-jsonl
files will be added later.

backend/README.md, after:

# Open-Assistant REST Backend

## Backend Development Setup

### Local Database

In root directory, run
`docker compose --profile backend-dev up --build --attach-dependencies` to start
a database. The default settings are already configured to connect to the
database at `localhost:5432`. (See
[FAQ](https://projects.laion.ai/Open-Assistant/docs/faq#enable-dockers-buildkit-backend)
if you face any docker problems).

Python 3.10 is required. It is recommended to use `pyenv` which will recognise
the `.python-version` in the project root directory.

### Python Packages

Next, to install all requirements, You can run

1. `pip install -r requirements.txt` inside the `backend` folder; and
2. `pip install -e .` inside the `oasst-shared` folder.
3. `pip install -e .` inside the `oasst-data` folder.
4. `./scripts/backend-development/run-local.sh` to run the backend. This will
   start the backend server at `http://localhost:8080`.

## REST Server Configuration

Please either use environment variables or create a `.env` file in the backend
root directory (in which this readme file is located) to specify the
`DATABASE_URI`.

Example contents of a `.env` file for the backend:

```
DATABASE_URI="postgresql://<username>:<password>@<host>/<database_name>"
BACKEND_CORS_ORIGINS=["http://localhost", "http://localhost:4200", "http://localhost:3000", "http://localhost:8080", "https://localhost", "https://localhost:4200", "https://localhost:3000", "https://localhost:8080", "http://dev.oasst.laion.ai", "https://stag.oasst.laion.ai", "https://oasst.laion.ai"]
REDIS_HOST=localhost
REDIS_PORT=6379
```

## Running the REST Server locally for development

Have a look into the main `README.md` file for more information on how to set up
the backend for development. Use the scripts within the
scripts/backend-development folder to run the BE API locally.

## Alembic

To create an Alembic database migration script after sql-models were modified
run `alembic revision --autogenerate -m "..."` ("..." is what you did) in the
`/backend` directory. Then edit the newly created file. See
[here](https://alembic.sqlalchemy.org/en/latest/tutorial.html) for more
information.

## API Documentation

Once you have successfully started the backend server, you can access the
default api docs at `localhost:8080/docs`. If you need to update the exported
openapi.json in the docs/ folder you can run below command to `wget` them from
the relevant local fastapi endpoint. This will enable anyone to just see API
docs via something like
[Swagger.io](https://editor.swagger.io/?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/LAION-AI/Open-Assistant/main/docs/docs/api/openapi.json)
without having to actually set up and run a development backend.

```bash
# save openapi.json to docs/docs/api
wget localhost:8080/api/v1/openapi.json -O docs/docs/api/openapi.json
```

Note: The api docs should be automatically updated by the
`test-api-contract.yaml` workflow.
